in South America a forest home is under
threat and the only hope for one small
monkey rests on local shoulders
paramilitaries Hong Kong me COC roti
tirugata para ser hey como se para
Sierra whole semana pasada movie romeo
mia the continent of South America
contains almost a quarter of the world's
forests including the Amazon our largest
rainforest
but in northern Colombia much smaller
patches of dry tropical forests are home
to a tiny monkey the cotton-top tamarin
named for their distinctive shock of
white hair cotton tops or TTS as they
are known locally are among the world's
smallest primates weighing in at only
half a kilogram to find them film them
for the BBC's television series seven
worlds one planet
the crew enlist the help of Felix who
has been tracking and studying the
monkeys for over thirty years during
that time he has witnessed a devastating
change in their fortunes Oh India
where's la mano kami ah del hombre say
taka bond oh la casa de okay elbows
Kasich Oh tropical yarmulke bond hola
gonorrhea cultivo de Banco hair como you
Kaname yes Oh Kaka bond o con la casa o
TT y por eso tenemos que para hacer la
boca tan peligro detention
it's a story repeated throughout the
forests of South America in the past few
years deforestation rates have increased
by 14%
across the continent tens of thousands
of fires are started every year in order
to clear land for cattle and crops the
cotton-top tamarins have already lost
95% of their tropical forest habitat now
fewer than 2000 remain in the wild
making them critically endangered but
there are many in the local community
who were determined to save them from
extinction
they are only found here in Colombia
when I was born and raised and I never
knew when I was growing up so that
fascinated me and motivated me to just
you know take action and dedicate my my
life to saving the monkeys were Sameera
and Felix a members of proyecto titi a
local organization dedicated to saving
the cotton tops they believe that only
by tackling the causes of deforestation
can they provide them with a secure
future signs alone and force protection
alone is not enough to save the species
so we involve communities by educating
the young generations and also provide
an income to the local communities so
they don't have to rely on forest
resources for subsistence it's hoped
such ambitious and long-term plans will
provide the next generation with the
means and motivation to preserve both
the cotton-top tamarins and their forest
home for the time being though the fate
of these tiny primates remains in the
balance it's to our best interest to
protect this species because if we lose
them
we're losing the forest we're losing our
future
you